{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
MySQL supports a complete set of date and time types. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Date and Time\
Year\
DateTIme\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 TimeStamp - automatically updated when a row is created or updated. \
\
Two-digit year support \
\
\ul MySQL pre-5.6.6\ulnone \
00-69 = 2000-2069\
70-99 = 1970-1999\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 MySQL 5.6.6 and later - deprecated\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \
It still works according to these rules. But the documentation warns that this functionality will be removed in a future release.\cb1 \
\cb3 Keep in mind that two digit years are never a good idea, and if you're using them today, you'll be well served by updating your systems to use four digit years. \
\
My SQL stores dates and times in standard sql format.\
 \
Standard SQL format for dates and times.\
\
	2014-03-10 18:24:42\
\
is designed for convenient sorting and searching. Different countries and locals have different localized formats for dates and times. Some with the year to the left some with the year to the right. Some in odd mixed up orders like the month day year format common in the US.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Standard SQL format has \
	the most significant parts to the left \
and the least significant parts to the right. \
\
This makes sorting and searching much easier so you may even find it useful in other contexts in spreadsheets and file names. \
\
MySQL has comprehensive time zone support that's based on the intensive time zone database maintained by the 
\f1\b Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) 	
\f0\b0 \
\
	
\f1\b The IANA Time Zone (TZ) database
\f0\b0  - a standard set of international time zone rules names and locations.\cb1 \
\cb3 		 Mac or Unix based My SQL installation,  has this database installed.\
		Windows - probably not installed by default. \
\

\f1\b Time Zone Support\cb1 \

\f0\b0 \cb3 MySQL uses a set of variables to control some system behaviors including time zone support. \
\
So, the time and date types in MySQL have good support for storing and displaying time and date information including comprehensive support for time zones based on the extensive IANA time zone database.}